= Chemcaster[http://chemcaster.com] Ruby API

This is the Ruby interface for the Chemcaster[http://chemcaster.com] RESTful Web
API. It consists of basic functionality needed to create
applications using chemical structure registration, storage, imaging, and
search.

== Installation

Installation through the Ruby Gem hosted on GitHub is recommended:

  # add GitHub to your local list of gem sources:
  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com/
  
  # install the gem:
  gem install metamolecular-chemcaster

== Example Use

=== Connecting to the Service

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'chemcaster'

   service = Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password'

Because Chemcaster[http://chemcaster.com] authenticates using SSL, you'll need to make sure the
Ruby HTTP library can find the root SSL certificates on your system. On
Debian Linux systems, these files are found in /etc/ssl/certs. This is
also the default location used by the Chemcaster Ruby Client.

To override the default SSL certificates path, pass the +root_ca+ option to the
+connect+ method:

   service = Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password',
     :root_ca => 'path/to/root_ssl_certs'

More information can be found here:

* {Making an HTTPS Web Request}[http://codeidol.com/other/rubyckbk/Internet-Services/Making-an-HTTPS-Web-Request]
* {SSL Certificates and Net::HTTPS}[http://redcorundum.blogspot.com/2008/03/ssl-certificates-and-nethttps.html]
* {Verified HTTPS in Ruby}[http://notetoself.vrensk.com/2008/09/verified-https-in-ruby]

=== Loading a Registry from a Listing

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'chemcaster'

   service = Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password'
   registries = service.registries
   registries.size # => 3
   registry = registries[0]

=== Loading a Registry from a URI

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'chemcaster'

   Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password'

   link = Chemcaster::Link.new 'name'=> 'foo',
     'uri' => 'https://chemcaster.com/registries/123456',
     'media_type' => 'application/vnd.com.chemcaster.Registry+json'
   registry = link.get

Note: No assumptions should be made about Chemcaster[http://chemcaster.com] URI layout. Once
you receive a resource URI, you can expect it to work at any point
in the future for random-access. But URI templates are unnecessary
when accessing resources.

=== Creating a Registry

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'chemcaster'

   service = Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password'
   registries = service.registries

   registries.create :name => 'CarboBlocks, Inc.'

=== Changing a Registry Name

   require 'rubygems'
   require 'chemcaster'

   service = Chemcaster::Service.connect 'username', 'password'
   registry = service.registries[0]
   registry.update :name => 'CarboBlocks International, Inc.'